---
layout:     post 
title:      "How To Setup Unity Assemblies Correctly"
subtitle:   ""
date:       2020-03-26
author:     "Nigesh Shakya"
URL: "/2019/12/22/unity-assembly/"
image:      "https://img.zhaohuabing.com/post-bg-2015.jpg"
---



## Intro
So if you're into Unity projects and have decided to use your own Unity Assemblies rather than having Unity create them by default (which usually goes by the name `Assembly-CSharp`) there are couple of things to take note here. First of all, why would you even want to create your own custom assemblies rather than having Unity do it for you?

Maybe you need to integrate Unit tests and the test assembly files need to be able to reference the main assemblies pre-compile time. That was precisely my case. If you have been in Unity space for a while now, you probably know by now how to create Test Suites in Unity. For now I'm going to skip this step since its out of scope. 

Anyway, back to the point. When you create any assembly in a folder, if there are [special folders](http://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/SpecialFolders.html?_ga=2.236387649.1198476962.1585255770-1654803508.1559659189) within than folder or a folder before it, things get complicated. For me it was the Editor folder that was messing up my compilation.  If you have any Editor files then you also need to add a separate Assembly assets under that folder and mark the Platforms as only `Editor`. That should hide the Editor from being compiled.The way this works is because how Unity compiles the code. According to the [documentation]( https://docs.unity3d.com/Manual/ScriptCompileOrderFolders.html) Unity compiles scripts
 in four separate phases, based on where the script file is located within the project folder structure. Unity creates a separate CSharp project file (.csproj) and a predefined assembly for each phase. (If there are no scripts eligible for a compilation phase, Unity does not create the corresponding project file or assembly.)
 
Unity recommends a good way to organize the Assembly files too https://docs.unity3d.com/2018.3/Documentation/Manual/ScriptCompilationAssemblyDefinitionFiles.html and I personally find that fascinating too because writing assemblies yourself removes lots of unwanted cyclic dependencies in your codes and who doesn't like an optimzed code, right?
